PIECES

Any time a "power" is used, the piece is permanently "revealed" to
the world.


1  engineer

   power: can kill a 4 IF moving (cannot kill 4 in pure defense)
   this is a passive power (no need to declare anything)
   as soon as a 4 is attacked, the piece is revealed

2  expert

   power: destroys bombs
   this is a passive power (no need to declare anything)
   as soon as a bomb is destroyed, the piece is revealed

3  flash

   power: can choose to move prior to production
   the reveal occurs when the actions are revealed in phase 2

4  train

   power: As a bonus extra action, another friendly adjacent piece
   can be direct to the former location of the 4
   this only works when the 4 is moving and it survives
   the reveal occurs when the actions are revealed in phase 2

B  bomb

   Esentially, a 5. It cannot move.

   power: destroys anything other than 2.
   the reveal occurs as result of it being attacked.

0  factory

   cannot be occupied, but can be destroyed by
   anything. Attacking results in destruction since it will always
   lose.

   power: A new piece (any kind) is placed in an adjacent empty space.
   the reveal occurse when the actions are revealed in phase 2


*  The main base. Strictly speaking, it is not a piece, but a
   place on the board.

   New pieces are either placed ON the main base
   or adjacent to it if unoccupied. If occupied by another player
   (that players piece sits on it), then the base becomes 'owed'
   by the player on it. If nothing occupies it, then it reverts
   back to the original owner.

Self-destructive moves are allowed. A piece can move to a 'friendly' piece, thus destroying it (or being destroyed by it.)

Phases for each turn:

   1. Each player secretly declares 'actions'. Each player has:
     a. one action (any kind) if the player has at least one piece
        on the board
     b. one action (any kind) for each main base owned.
     c. one 'production action' per mobile base FOR THAT mobile
        base.
     d. one 'train action' per train FOR THAT train
   2. All 'actions' are revealed.
   3. All 'early move action' by '3' pieces happen
      If the '3' action causes conflict, then the conflict is resolved.
   4. All 'production actions' happen. If a '3' now occupies the
      space, then the production is cancelled.
   5. All 'move actions' that are unimpeded happen. (aka the 'chase')
   6. All 'move actions' that are in conflict are resolved.
       Conflict:
          a. possible reveals:
             1. All 'involved' players see the pieces.
                (players not involved see nothing.)
             2. Nothing is revealed. But the loser can imply a
                power level from the results.
          b. If any of the pieces are 1, then any 4s are destroyed.
          c. If any of the pieces are 2, then any 5s are destroyed.
          d. Final resolution is based on relative value.
          e. If the final winners are equal. all are destroyed and
             the square is unoccupied.
   7. All 'train move actions' that can still be made are done.
      If the train piece was destroyed, the action does not happen.
      If the piece originally 'tagged' is destroyed, the action
      does not happen.
      (In other words, enemy pieces are never moved.)
      (And yes, newly produced pieces CAN be moved.)

A player is never "out". Even if he has no pieces and no base,
then the players simply takes no action. But if his main base
becomes 'uncovered', for whatever reason, then he/she can begin
production once more.

To help with game ending:

a player can "flag" surrender. If three players are flagged, then
the remaining player is the winner. A player decides to put up
(or takes down a flag) during phase 1.

In the online game, if a player seems to not respond to the game
anymore, a "stupid AI" takes over. The stupid AI puts up a flag
if any player has twice the number of pieces as the AI.

An AI win is never credited to the missing player. In fact, the
game is no longer used for scoring.

An AI loss, however, is no big deal. A formula is used based on
the number of turns real players were in the game.