Ghengis Khan
  were based upon manoeuvre and terror. The point of Genghis' strategic assault was nothing less than the psychology of the opposing population.
  fast moving armies

  fast risk taker; take the immediate advantage
  be manueverable; psychological effect

Alexander the Great
  moderate risk taker; seeking gain over strategic position or other strategic interests.
  single front preferred.

Napoleon
  Napoleon invariably sought to achieve decision in battle, with the sole aim of utterly destroying his opponent, usually achieving success
  through superior manouevre. As ruler and general he dealt with the grand strategy as well as the operational strategy, making use of
  political and economic measures.

  overpower; convervative; but fast after expansion
  divide and conquer was a common tactic

Giulio Douhet
  Theory of attrition; extreme emphasis on air power to accellerate attrition.

Ulysses S. Grant
  Theory of attrition; accept bad loss exchange ratios if you have superior numbers, thus winning in the end and defeating any strategic/tactical
  manuevering benefit of the enemy.

  it's almost an economic war.

Helmuth von Moltke
  Changing strategy once conflict begins; flexibility
  "No battle plan survives contact with the enemy"
  
Sherman
  Liddell Hart credited Sherman with mastery of maneuver warfare (also known as the "indirect approach"), as demonstrated by his series of turning
  movements against Johnston during the Atlanta Campaign.
  Total Warfare and Scorched Earth

Ivan Bloch

  * New arms technology (e.g. smokeless gunpowder, improved rifle design, Maxims) had rendered maneuvers over open ground, such as bayonet and
    cavalry charges, obsolete. Bloch concluded that a war between the Great powers would be a war of entrenchment and that rapid attacks and
    decisive victories were likewise a thing of the past. He was able to calculate that entrenched men would enjoy a fourfold advantage over
    infantry advancing across open ground.

  * Industrial societies would have to settle the resultant stalemate by committing armies numbering in the millions, as opposed to the tens of
    thousands of preceding wars. An enormous battlefront would develop. A war of this type could not be resolved quickly.

  * The war would become a duel of industrial might, a matter of total economic attrition. Severe economic and social dislocations would result
    in the imminent risk of famine, disease, the "break-up of the whole social organization" and revolutions from below.

  theory of attrition; emphasis on defensive positions

Frederick II

 Frederick frequently led his military forces personally and had six horses shot from under him during battle. Frederick is often admired as
 one of the greatest tactical geniuses of all time, especially for his usage of the oblique order of battle. Even more important were his
 operational successes, especially preventing the unification of numerically superior opposing armies and being at the right place at the right
 time to keep enemy armies out of Prussian core territory.

  emphasis on short term tactics
